# Overview
Scripts used to complete the *Puccinia hordei* genome assemblies, annotation and data visualization in Spanner *et al.* (2025), Haplotype-phased genomes of the barley leaf rust pathogen reveal evidence of repeat element expansion and somatic hybridization: [DOI](https://doi.org/10.64898/2026.01.30.702850).

# Assembly, phasing and scaffolding

# Gene annotation

# Data visualization
Bespoke code or undescribed methods were used to make elements of the following Figures:

# Figure 1
`figure1_phenotype.R` : creates an .eps file of a heat map of barley leaf rust isolate virulence profiles across Bowman differential lines, using the `phenotype.txt` file as input.

`figure1_chromatin_contact.R` : plots a bar chart with mean±SE for chromatin contact to constituent nucleus or other nucleus for phased chromosomes 1-18, using the `chromatin_contact.txt` file as input.

# Figure 3
`figure3_synteny.sh`: makes a synteny plot between chromosomes of all twenty nuclear-phased barley leaf rust haplotypes using `syri` and `plotsR`. Haplotype-phased genomes can be found at https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.30623441.

`figure3_chr_length.R` : creates violin plots of chromosome lengths.

`figure3_dotplot.R` : creates dotplots of pairwise alignment files (.paf) generated by minimap2 using `pafR`. Same code used for Figure 4C.

# Figure 5
`figure5_scatter.R` : creates scatter plot of genome size (Mbp) vs. total repeat size (Mbp).

`figure5_stackedbar.R` : creates a stacked bar chart that shows the size of each type of repeat (Mbp) in each genome.

# Figure 6
`figure6_pangenome_saturation.R` : plots a pangenome saturation curve using `micropan` alongside cumulative "core" and "unique" orthogroups with increasing number of nuclear haplotypes.

`figure6_orthogroups.R` : plots a histogram of orthogroups shared between different numbers of nuclear haplotypes. 

# Figure S8
`figureS8_karyoplot.Rmd` : plots gene density along chromosomes using `KaryoploteR`.


